1. Analyst Learning Path
1.1 Get Started with Tableau	
https://elearning-samples.tableau.com/getting-started-with-tableau/896548/scorm/lf7tenjqty6n

1.1.1 Understanding Basix Data Concepts
ㅁ Common types of data sets
To read a chart, you don't need to be an expert in databases or spreadsheets. But with a small amount of data knowledge, you'll feel more at ease in the world of data. 

After the connection, Tableau reads the data and assigns a data type to each field (see orange box).

Users verify that Tableau has correctly assigned data types, and they can make changes on the Data Source page if the data type is wrong. They can also rename unclear or misspelled fields.

Any changes made in Tableau are not written to the native data source. Changes are instead stored as metadata in a Tableau file called a Tableau Data Source, or .tds.

After connecting to data and adjusting the metadata, users can open a sheet to begin building charts, analyzing data, and sharing results.


ㅁ A closer look at fields
What is a field?
A fields, also known as a column, is a single piece of information from a record in a data set.
For example, if you were to collect data on how many times a week a commuter chose different modes of transportation, your data set could include:

Commuter name, Mode, and Days per week are all fields. Commuter name and Mode are qualitative fields, while Days per week is a quantitative field. 
Commuter 통근자, 출퇴근자

Knowledge check
In a data set, a field named Color that includes members such as red, green, blue, and orange is most likely :
Qualitative
​
A quantitative field is best described as :
A field that contains numerical data.
​
When Tableau connects to data, fields are assigned into two roles:
Dimensions ans Measures​

연속형 데이터 [ Continuous Data ] , 이산형 데이터 (Discrete Data)

ㅁ How data is represented in Tableau
Most dimensions are discrete fields.
discrete 불연속, 이산형
exclamation field 느낌표

continuous means data value in the set can be any value in the range.

synonymous 동의어
truncation 잘라냄, 절단

ㅁ Why Pill Type Matters
When we bring a field into the view from the data pane, Tableau creates a pill. Whether or not that pill is a dimension or a measure, or continuous or discrete, impacts every level of functionality in the analysis, from the way the data displays to the deeply technical, behind the scenes approach to how data is processed. Knowing the features of how Tableau works with pills is vital to staying in control of the analysis.

- The value of a measure therefore depends on the context of the 
dimensions. For example, the result for the sum of shipping cost is dependent on if we mean overall, just under a million and a half, or per Order Priority level, from 65 to about 550 thousand.

- Dimensions are usually categorical fields such as Order Priority and Region. Specifically, in Tableau, dimensions set the granularity, or the level of detail in the view. We typically want to group our data by some combination of categories. What dimensions we use to build the view will determine how many marks we have – here we have 4 order priorities - critical to low – and we have 4 marks.

- Changing Default Pill Types
Most of the time, dimensions are discrete and measures are continuous. However, this isn’t always true. It’s possible to have a numerical dimension be continuous, or to convert a measure to discrete. For example, Discount is currently down here as a continuous measure, we may want to change it to discrete, by right clicking and selecting “convert to discrete”. When we hover over the pill, it’s now blue, and the icon is blue as well. We can also convert it to a dimension simply by dragging it into the Dimensions area of the data pane. Note that those two operations – converting to discrete and converting to a 
dimension, are not synonymous.

For the rest of this video, we’ll mostly be talking about continuous and discrete data instead of measures and dimensions. If you’re ever in doubt, remember: dimensions come out onto the view as themselves, measures come out onto the view as aggregates, discrete pills are BLUE, continuous pills are GREEN.

Axis vs Label
Let’s start with axes and labels. When a continuous pill is brought into the view, it creates an axis. This will automatically fill the entire view along that direction. When a discrete pill is brought into the view, it creates a label with panes for each value. This will take up as much or as little room as required

Color and Maps
Whether a pill is continuous or discrete also has an impact on default behavior for colors. A continuous pill on the color shelf will create a gradient. A discrete pill on the color shelf will create a color palette, where each unique value is assigned a color – here I made a copy of my Sales field and changed it to discrete, but the underlying data is identical. On a map, the default behavior depends on whether the pill is continuous or discrete, but also if it’s dimension or a measure. If the geographic type allows it, a measure on color defaults to a filled map. A dimension on color defaults to a symbol map. Whether these colors are gradients or palettes depends on if the pill is continuous or discrete.

Filtering
Filtering on a discrete pill, such as Category, brings up options related to the specific list of values for that pill. Filtering on a continuous measure pill, such as Profit, asks first if we want to filter at the row-level or aggregate level, then brings up options for continuous ranges.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.1.2 Reading Common Chart Types

leverages 영향력
interpret 설명하다. 이해하다.
orientation 방향
cues 신호, 단서

Finally, using a bar chart shows the full visualization with sales by length and profit ratio encoded by color. Immediately, the viewer can see highest sales and lowest profit.
Visual analytics leverages visual cues humans automatically process with sensory memory. These visual cues are know as:

Visual analytics leverages our pre‑attentive attributes, which are the visual cues humans automatically process with sensory memory. We can notice and interpret these kinds of attributes quickly and without special effort.

pre‑attentive attributes 사전 주의적 속성
deliberately  고의로, 계획적으로

legend  범례
uniform 획일적인, 균일한
typical 전형적인, 대표적인
Correlation 연관성, 상관관계
causation 인과관계
diverge 갈라지다. 나뉘다.
iterative 되플이하는, 반복의
initial 처음의, 초기의
empowers 권한을 주다.
confidently 자신있게, 대담하게
incomplete 불완전한, 미완성의
consistencies 일관성, 한결같은 <> inconsistencies 불일치, 모순
scenario 시나리오, 각본

In the videos above, you've seen how you can build visualizations in several different ways, including:
- Dragging or double-clicking to put fields on Rows or Columns.
- Dragging fields to the Marks card.
- Dragging fields to the view.
- Selecting fields and clicking on a chart type in Show Me. 
You have also seen how to analyze data in a bar chart or crosstab. To see an example of when each chart type or method would be useful for analyzing your data, try the matching activity below.

narrative 이야기, 서술
demonstrate 보여주다, 설명하다
preparation 준비
manipulate 조종하다, 다루다
disparate 이질적인, 서로 전혀 다른
integrate 통합시키다.
repeatability 반복성 repeat 반복하다.
sophisticated 세련된, 교양있는
empowers 권한을 주다.
confidently 자신있게, 대담하게
incomplete 불완전한, 미완성의
consistencies 일관성, 한결같은 <> inconsistencies 불일치, 모순
scenario 시나리오, 각본
capitalization 대문자사용
punctuation 구두점
oriented ~을 지향하는
orient 지향하게 하다. 맞추다.
reflection 반영, 반사
descriptive 서술하는, 묘사하는
compartmentalize 구분하다. 분류하다.
annotation 주석 
sequential 순차적인
realigned 재편성하다. 재구성하다.
Pronunciation 발음
appropriate 적절한
incrementally 증가하다. 증대하다.
retrieve 되찾아오다, 회수하다, 검색하다.
recapitulate ( recap )  (이미 한 말·결정 사항 등의) 개요를 말하다. 요약하다.
illustration 삽화, 그림
steward 관리자
underlying 근본적인, 밑에 있는
Ideally 이상적인
collaborate 협력하다. 공동으로 작업하다
unobtrusive 불필요하게 관심을 끌지 않는, 지나치게 야단스럽지 않은
functionality 목적, 기능
collapse 붕괴
accommodate 공간을 제공하다. 수용하다
enlarge 확대하다. 확장하다.
corresponding ~에 해당하는, ~에 상응하는
Lineage (Table 간의) 관계
thumbnail 섬네일(페이지 전체의 레이아웃을 검토할 수 있게 페이지 전체를 작게 줄여 화면에 띄운 것)
circumstances 사정, 상황
cue 신호
cumbersome 크고 무거운, 다루기 힘든
slightly 약간, 조금
predominantly 대게, 대부분
Be aware 주의하다.
prompt 즉각적인, 지체 없는, 신속한












