1. Analyst Learning Path
1.1 Get Started with Tableau	
https://elearning-samples.tableau.com/getting-started-with-tableau/896548/scorm/lf7tenjqty6n

1.1.1 Understanding Basix Data Concepts
ㅁ Common types of data sets
To read a chart, you don't need to be an expert in databases or spreadsheets. But with a small amount of data knowledge, you'll feel more at ease in the world of data. 

After the connection, Tableau reads the data and assigns a data type to each field (see orange box).

Users verify that Tableau has correctly assigned data types, and they can make changes on the Data Source page if the data type is wrong. They can also rename unclear or misspelled fields.

Any changes made in Tableau are not written to the native data source. Changes are instead stored as metadata in a Tableau file called a Tableau Data Source, or .tds.

After connecting to data and adjusting the metadata, users can open a sheet to begin building charts, analyzing data, and sharing results.


ㅁ A closer look at fields
What is a field?
A fields, also known as a column, is a single piece of information from a record in a data set.
For example, if you were to collect data on how many times a week a commuter chose different modes of transportation, your data set could include:

Commuter name, Mode, and Days per week are all fields. Commuter name and Mode are qualitative fields, while Days per week is a quantitative field. 
Commuter 통근자, 출퇴근자

Knowledge check
In a data set, a field named Color that includes members such as red, green, blue, and orange is most likely :
Qualitative
​
A quantitative field is best described as :
A field that contains numerical data.
​
When Tableau connects to data, fields are assigned into two roles:
Dimensions ans Measures​

연속형 데이터 [ Continuous Data ] , 이산형 데이터 (Discrete Data)

ㅁ How data is represented in Tableau
Most dimensions are discrete fields.
discrete 불연속, 이산형
exclamation field 느낌표

continuous means data value in the set can be any value in the range.

synonymous 동의어
truncation 잘라냄, 절단

ㅁ Why Pill Type Matters
When we bring a field into the view from the data pane, Tableau creates a pill. Whether or not that pill is a dimension or a measure, or continuous or discrete, impacts every level of functionality in the analysis, from the way the data displays to the deeply technical, behind the scenes approach to how data is processed. Knowing the features of how Tableau works with pills is vital to staying in control of the analysis.

- The value of a measure therefore depends on the context of the 
dimensions. For example, the result for the sum of shipping cost is dependent on if we mean overall, just under a million and a half, or per Order Priority level, from 65 to about 550 thousand.

- Dimensions are usually categorical fields such as Order Priority and Region. Specifically, in Tableau, dimensions set the granularity, or the level of detail in the view. We typically want to group our data by some combination of categories. What dimensions we use to build the view will determine how many marks we have – here we have 4 order priorities - critical to low – and we have 4 marks.

- Changing Default Pill Types
Most of the time, dimensions are discrete and measures are continuous. However, this isn’t always true. It’s possible to have a numerical dimension be continuous, or to convert a measure to discrete. For example, Discount is currently down here as a continuous measure, we may want to change it to discrete, by right clicking and selecting “convert to discrete”. When we hover over the pill, it’s now blue, and the icon is blue as well. We can also convert it to a dimension simply by dragging it into the Dimensions area of the data pane. Note that those two operations – converting to discrete and converting to a 
dimension, are not synonymous.

For the rest of this video, we’ll mostly be talking about continuous and discrete data instead of measures and dimensions. If you’re ever in doubt, remember: dimensions come out onto the view as themselves, measures come out onto the view as aggregates, discrete pills are BLUE, continuous pills are GREEN.

Axis vs Label
Let’s start with axes and labels. When a continuous pill is brought into the view, it creates an axis. This will automatically fill the entire view along that direction. When a discrete pill is brought into the view, it creates a label with panes for each value. This will take up as much or as little room as required

Color and Maps
Whether a pill is continuous or discrete also has an impact on default behavior for colors. A continuous pill on the color shelf will create a gradient. A discrete pill on the color shelf will create a color palette, where each unique value is assigned a color – here I made a copy of my Sales field and changed it to discrete, but the underlying data is identical. On a map, the default behavior depends on whether the pill is continuous or discrete, but also if it’s dimension or a measure. If the geographic type allows it, a measure on color defaults to a filled map. A dimension on color defaults to a symbol map. Whether these colors are gradients or palettes depends on if the pill is continuous or discrete.

Filtering
Filtering on a discrete pill, such as Category, brings up options related to the specific list of values for that pill. Filtering on a continuous measure pill, such as Profit, asks first if we want to filter at the row-level or aggregate level, then brings up options for continuous ranges.





